# vimux

Easily interact with tmux from vim. This project is still in development, so some features are still missing.

What inspired me to write vimux was [tslime.vim](https://github.com/kikijump/tslime.vim), a plugin that lets you send input to tmux. While tslime.vim works well, I felt it wasn't optimized for my primary use case which was having a smaller tmux pane that I would use to run tests or play with a REPL. 

My goal with vimux is to make interacting with tmux from vim effortless. By default when you call `RunVimTmuxCommand` vimux will create a 20% tall horizontal pane under your current tmux pane and execute a command in it without losing focus of vim. Once that pane exists whenever you call `RunVimTmuxCommand` again the command will be executed in that pane. As I was using vimux myself I wanted to rerun commands over and over. An example of this was running the current file through rspec. Rather than typing that over and over I wrote `RunLastVimTmuxCommand` that will execute the last command you called with `RunVimTmuxCommand`. 

Other auxiliary functions and the ones I talked about above can be found bellow with a full description and example key binds for your vimrc.

## Installation

With **[vim-bundle](https://github.com/benmills/vim-bundle)**: `vim-bundle install benmills/vimux`

Otherwise download the latest [tarball](https://github.com/benmills/vimux/tarball/master), extract it and move `plugin/vimux.vim` inside `~/.vim/plugin`. If you're using [pathogen](https://github.com/tpope/vim-pathogen), then move the entire folder extracted from the tarball into `~/.vim/bundle`.

## Platform-specific Plugins

* [vimux-ruby-test](https://github.com/pgr0ss/vimux-ruby-test) a set of commands to easily run ruby tests
* [vimux-cucumber](https://github.com/cloud8421/vimux-cucumber) run Cucumber Features through Vimux

## Usage

### RunVimTmuxCommand
Run a system command in a small horizontal split bellow the current pane vim is in.

```viml
" Run the current file with rspec
map <Leader>rb :call RunVimTmuxCommand("clear; rspec " . bufname("%"))<CR>
```

### PromptVimTmuxCommand
Prompt for a command and run it in a small horizontal split bellow the current pane.

```viml
" Prompt for a command to run
map <Leader>rp :PromptVimTmuxCommand<CR>
```

### RunLastVimTmuxCommand
Run the last command executed by `RunVimTmuxCommand`

```viml
" Run last command executed by RunVimTmuxCommand
map <Leader>rl :RunLastVimTmuxCommand<CR>
```

### InspectVimTmuxRunner
Move into the tmux runner pane created by `RunVimTmuxCommand` and enter copy mode (scroll mode).

```viml
" Inspect runner pane
map <Leader>ri :InspectVimTmuxRunner<CR>
```

### CloseVimTmuxPanes
Close all other tmux panes in the current window.

```viml
" Close all other tmux panes in current window
map <Leader>rx :CloseVimTmuxPanes<CR>
```

### InterruptVimTmuxRunner
Interrupt any command that is running inside the runner pane.

```viml
" Interrupt any command running in the runner pane
map <Leader>rs :InterruptVimTmuxRunner<CR>
```

### Full Keybind Example

```viml
" Run the current file with rspec
map <Leader>rb :call RunVimTmuxCommand("clear; rspec " . bufname("%"))<CR>

" Prompt for a command to run
map <Leader>rp :PromptVimTmuxCommand<CR>

" Run last command executed by RunVimTmuxCommand
map <Leader>rl :RunLastVimTmuxCommand<CR>

" Inspect runner pane
map <Leader>ri :InspectVimTmuxRunner<CR>

" Close all other tmux panes in current window
map <Leader>rx :CloseVimTmuxPanes<CR>

" Interrupt any command running in the runner pane
map <Leader>rs :InterruptVimTmuxRunner<CR>
```

### tslime replacement

Here is how to use vimux to send code to a REPL. This is similar to tslime. First, add some helpful mappings.

```viml

" Prompt for a command to run
map <LocalLeader>vp :PromptVimTmuxCommand<CR>

" If text is selected, save it in the v buffer and send that buffer it to tmux
vmap <LocalLeader>vs "vy :call RunVimTmuxCommand(@v)<CR>

" Select current paragraph and send it to tmux
nmap <LocalLeader>vs vip<LocalLeader>vs<CR>
```

Now, open a clojure file. Let's say your leader is backslash (\). Type \vp, and then type lein repl at the prompt. This opens a tmux split running a REPL. Then, select text or put the cursor on a function and type \vs. This will send it to the REPL and evaluate it.

## Options

### VimuxHeight
Set the percent height of the runner pane opened by `RunVimTmuxCommand`.
**Default: `"20"`**

```viml
let VimuxHeight = "50"
```

### VimuxOrientation
Set the default position of the runner pane.

**Acceptable Values:**
`"v"` Vertical
`"h"` Horizontal

**Default: `"v"`**

```viml
let VimuxOrientation = "h"
```

### VimuxUseNearestPane
Use nearest pane (not used by vim) if found instead of running
split-window.
Useful if you always have two panes opened and you want Vimux to use the
existing one.

```viml
let VimuxUseNearestPane = 1
```
